
RECIPE TYPE: main, side
CUISINE: karnataka, indian
SERVES: 4
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for pressure cooking rice:

    1.5 cups regular rice
    ½ tsp salt
    ½ tsp oil
    2.5 cups water

for the paste:

    ½ cup grated coconut
    1.5 cups peeled & chopped raw unripe mango or 250 grams raw mango/mangoes, chopped
    3 to 4 dry red chilies, broken and deseeded
    1 green chili/hari mirch, chopped
    1 tsp white sesame seeds/safed til
    2 tsp peanuts/moongphali
    1 tsp jaggery/gur (optional)

other ingredients:

    3 tbsp peanut oil or sesame oil or any oil
    1 or 2 dry red chilies, broken and deseeded
    1 tsp mustard seeds/rai
    1 tsp chana dal (optional)
    1 tsp urad dal (optional)
    3 to 4 tbsp peanuts/moongphali
    a pinch of asafoetida/hing
    ¼ tsp turmeric powder/haldi
    1 sprig curry leaves/kadi patta, 12 to 15 curry leaves
    salt as required

INSTRUCTIONS

    first soak 1.5 cups rice in water for 20 minutes. use any regular rice.
    after 20 minutes, pressure cook the rice with 2.5 cups water, ½ tsp salt, ½ tsp oil for 2 whistles on high flame. you can also cook the rice in a pot. if cooking in a pot, then you may need to add more water.
    when the pressure settles down on its own, spread the rice on a plate. keep aside and allow the rice to cool at room temperature. when the rice is warm, cover and keep so that the rice grains do not dry out.
    when the rice is cooking, rinse, peel and chop 1 large green mango. 250 grams mangoes or 1.5 cups chopped raw mango. proportion is important here, so if you don't know the weight of the mangoes, then use the cup measurement.
    in a grinder jar, add the chopped mangoes along with 3 to 4 dry red chilies (broken and deseeded), 1 green chili (chopped), 1 tsp sesame seeds, 2 tsp peanuts, ½ cup grated coconut and 1 tsp powdered or grated jaggery. i added jaggery to balance the sourness of the mangoes. if you don't have dry red chilies, then add green chilies. add about 2 to 3 green chilies overall. i used byadagi red chilies which are not very hot. if using a hotter variety of red chilies, reduce the amount to 1 or 2.
    without adding any water, grind to a semi fine paste. don't make fine paste. keep aside.
    in a pan, heat 3 tbsp oil and add 3 to 4 tbsp peanuts.
    on a low flame, saute the peanuts till they change color.
    then bring them to the side of the pan and add 1 tsp mustard seeds. let the mustard seeds crackle. you can also add 1 tsp each of chana dal and urad dal at this step. if adding chana dal or urad dal, allow them to turn golden before you proceed to the next step.
    when the mustard seeds crackle add 12 to 15 curry leaves and 1 or 2 dry red chili. stir and saute till the red chilies change color.
    then add a pinch of asafoetida, ¼ tsp turmeric powder. stir well.
    now add the ground raw mango-coconut-spices paste.
    stir and saute for 3 to 4 minutes. then season with salt.
    stir very well again. remove from the stove top and keep aside.
    to the cooked rice you can add the raw mango coconut masala. you can mix in batches or at once. the rice has to be at room temperature before you start mixing.
    now with your hands gently mix the rice with the raw mango coconut masala. i mixed both the cooked rice and the masala in batches in a bowl.
    serve raw mango coconut rice with some fried papads or chips. you can also serve with some yogurt or a pickle. while serving, you can also garnish with chopped coriander leaves if you want.
